In this video, we'll talk about solidity,
the most popular programming language for Smart Contracts.
Solidity is statically typed,
high order language for writing smart contracts
that run on the Ethereum Virtual Machine or EVM.
It can support inheritance, libraries,
user-defined types, and many other popular features for programming language.
Its syntax is most compared to C++ and JavaScript.
But bear in mind that it's new and rapidly evolving language,
so it does have a number of limitations you might not be used to.
The easiest way to introduce solidity is to go through a "Hello World" example.
To get going, we'll use Remix,
an online browser-based IDE for solidity.
Once Remix loads, go ahead and close out of
any default programs that opens and make a new file.
Now, let's make a HelloWorld Solidity Smart Contract.
Go ahead and make a new file and call it HelloWorld.sol.
The first thing we have to define when writing
the Smart Contract and solidity is which version of solidity we'll be using.
For this example, we'll use version 0.4.24.
Next, we'll use a contract keyword to declare our contract,
and we'll make a variable of type string called message.
We'll give our message variable a value in
the constructor by assigning a string Hello World.
We'll then make a function to retrieve our message called getMessage.
It'll be public so anyone can access it,
it'll be a view function meaning,
we won't modify any state,
but just view the status of existing variables and it'll return a string.
This function will simply return the message we initialized in the constructor.
To compile, you can simply use the keyboard shortcut Command S,
or click on the "Compile" tab on the right and click "Start to compile."
The green banner indicates our contract compiled and so now we can run it.
Head over to the "Run" tab and from the "Environment's" drop-down choose JavaScript VM.
Don't worry about any of the other settings.
Go ahead and click on the "Deploy" button after
the drop-down with Smart Contract selected.
You should see a message in
the console window in the middle that it's successfully deployed.
We can extend that view to see more details of the contract deployment.
Notice that now we have a section called "Deployed
Contracts" with expanding arrow next to it.
Click on it to see the deployed Hello World Smart Contract.
Here, we can see that the Smart Contract we deployed
has one method that we created called getMessage.
Go ahead and click on it.
In the console, you should see your request to call
the method being executed and on the right hand side,
you should see the output HelloWorld.
Congrats, you've now completed your first solidity Smart Contract program.
Next, we'll create some more complex solidity programs using more advanced tooling.